Jang C2N Practical Generative Noise Modeling for Real-World Denoising
Learning-based image denoising methods have been bounded to situations where well-aligned noisy and clean images are given, or samples are synthesized from predetermined noise models, e.g., Gaussian. While recent generative noise modeling methods aim to simulate the unknown distribution of real-world noise, several limitations still exist. In a practical scenario, a noise generator should learn to simulate the general and complex noise distribution without using paired noisy and clean images. However, since existing methods are constructed on the unrealistic assumption of real-world noise, they tend to generate implausible patterns and cannot express complicated noise maps. Therefore, we introduce a Clean-to-Noisy image generation framework, namely C2N, to imitate complex real-world noise without using any paired examples. We construct the noise generator in C2N accordingly with each component of real-world noise characteristics to express a wide range of noise accurately. Combined with our C2N, conventional denoising CNNs can be trained to outperform existing unsupervised methods on challenging real-world benchmarks by a large margin.

Kim Continual Learning on Noisy Data Streams via Self-Purified Replay
Continually learning in the real world must overcome many challenges, among which noisy labels are a common and inevitable issue. In this work, we present a replay-based continual learning framework that simultaneously addresses both catastrophic forgetting and noisy labels for the first time. Our solution is based on two observations; (i) forgetting can be mitigated even with noisy labels via self-supervised learning, and (ii) the purity of the replay buffer is crucial. Building on this regard, we propose two key components of our method: (i) a self-supervised replay technique named Self-Replay, which can circumvent erroneous training signals arising from noisy labeled data, and (ii) the Self-Centered filter that maintains a purified replay buffer via centrality-based stochastic graph ensembles. The empirical results on MNIST, CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and WebVision with real-world noise demonstrate that our framework can maintain a highly pure replay buffer amidst noisy streamed data while greatly outperforming the combinations of the state-of-the-art continual learning and noisy label learning methods.

Yu PlenOctrees for Real-Time Rendering of Neural Radiance Fields
We introduce a method to render Neural Radiance Fields (NeRFs) in real time using PlenOctrees, an octree-based 3D representation which supports view-dependent effects. Our method can render 800x800 images at more than 150 FPS, which is over 3000 times faster than conventional NeRFs. We do so without sacrificing quality while preserving the ability of NeRFs to perform free-viewpoint rendering of scenes with arbitrary geometry and view-dependent effects. Real-time performance is achieved by pre-tabulating the NeRF into a PlenOctree. In order to preserve view-dependent effects such as specularities, we factorize the appearance via closed-form spherical basis functions. Specifically, we show that it is possible to train NeRFs to predict a spherical harmonic representation of radiance, removing the viewing direction as an input to the neural network. Furthermore, we show that PlenOctrees can be directly optimized to further minimize the reconstruction loss, which leads to equal or better quality compared to competing methods. Moreover, this octree optimization step can be used to reduce the training time, as we no longer need to wait for the NeRF training to converge fully. Our real-time neural rendering approach may potentially enable new applications such as 6-DOF industrial and product visualizations, as well as next generation AR/VR systems. PlenOctrees are amenable to in-browser rendering as well; please visit the project page for the interactive online demo, as well as video and code: https://alexyu.net/plenoctrees.

Chan Entropy Maximization and Meta Classification for Out-of-Distribution Detection in Semantic
Deep neural networks (DNNs) for the semantic segmentation of images are usually trained to operate on a predefined closed set of object classes. This is in contrast to the ""open world"" setting where DNNs are envisioned to be deployed to. From a functional safety point of view, the ability to detect so-called ""out-of-distribution"" (OoD) samples, i.e., objects outside of a DNN's semantic space, is crucial for many applications such as automated driving. A natural baseline approach to OoD detection is to threshold on the pixel-wise softmax entropy. We present a two-step procedure that significantly improves that approach. Firstly, we utilize samples from the COCO dataset as OoD proxy and introduce a second training objective to maximize the softmax entropy on these samples. Starting from pretrained semantic segmentation networks we re-train a number of DNNs on different in-distribution datasets and consistently observe improved OoD detection performance when evaluating on completely disjoint OoD datasets. Secondly, we perform a transparent post-processing step to discard false positive OoD samples by so-called ""meta classification"". To this end, we apply linear models to a set of hand-crafted metrics derived from the DNN's softmax probabilities. In our experiments we consistently observe a clear additional gain in OoD detection performance, cutting down the number of detection errors by 52% when comparing the best baseline with our results. We achieve this improvement sacrificing only marginally in original segmentation performance. Therefore, our method contributes to safer DNNs with more reliable overall system performance.

Zhou Specificity-Preserving RGB-D Saliency Detection
RGB-D saliency detection has attracted increasing attention, due to its effectiveness and the fact that depth cues can now be conveniently captured. Existing works often focus on learning a shared representation through various fusion strategies, with few methods explicitly considering how to preserve modality-specific characteristics. In this paper, taking a new perspective, we propose a specificity-preserving network for RGB-D saliency detection, which benefits saliency detection performance by exploring both the shared information and modality-specific properties (e.g., specificity). Specifically, two modality-specific networks and a shared learning network are adopted to generate individual and shared saliency maps. A cross-enhanced integration module (CIM) is proposed to fuse cross-modal features in the shared learning network, which are then propagated to the next layer for integrating cross-level information. Besides, we propose a multi-modal feature aggregation (MFA) module to integrate the modality-specific features from each individual decoder into the shared decoder, which can provide rich complementary multi-modal information to boost the saliency detection performance. Further, a skip connection is used to combine hierarchical features between the encoder and decoder layers. Experiments on six benchmark datasets demonstrate that our SP-Net outperforms other state-of-the-art methods.

Zhao 3DVG-Transformer Relation Modeling for Visual Grounding on Point Clouds
Visual grounding on 3D point clouds is an emerging vision and language task that benefits various applications in understanding the 3D visual world. By formulating this task as a grounding-by-detection problem, lots of recent works focus on how to exploit more powerful detectors and comprehensive language features, but (1) how to model complex relations for generating context-aware object proposals and (2) how to leverage proposal relations to distinguish the true target object from similar proposals are not fully studied yet. Inspired by the well-known transformer architecture, we propose a relation-aware visual grounding method on 3D point clouds, named as 3DVG-Transformer, to fully utilize the contextual clues for relationenhanced proposal generation and cross-modal proposal disambiguation, which are enabled by a newly designed coordinate-guided contextual aggregation (CCA) module in the object proposal generation stage, and a multiplex attention (MA) module in the cross-modal feature fusion stage. We validate that our 3DVG-Transformer outperforms the state-of-the-art methods by a large margin, on two point cloud-based visual grounding datasets, ScanRefer and Nr3D/Sr3D from ReferIt3D, especially for complex scenarios containing multiple objects of the same category.

Vaksman Patch Craft Video Denoising by Deep Modeling and Patch Matching
The non-local self-similarity property of natural images has been exploited extensively for solving various image processing problems. When it comes to video sequences, harnessing this force is even more beneficial due to the temporal redundancy. In the context of image and video denoising, many classically-oriented algorithms employ self-similarity, splitting the data into overlapping patches, gathering groups of similar ones and processing these together somehow. With the emergence of convolutional neural networks (CNN), the patch-based framework has been abandoned. Most CNN denoisers operate on the whole image, leveraging non-local relations only implicitly by using a large receptive field. This work proposes a novel approach for leveraging self-similarity in the context of video denoising, while still relying on a regular convolutional architecture. We introduce a concept of patch-craft frames - artificial frames that are similar to the real ones, built by tiling matched patches. Our algorithm augments video sequences with patch-craft frames and feeds them to a CNN. We demonstrate the substantial boost in denoising performance obtained with the proposed approach.

Cai AskConfirm Active Detail Enriching for Cross-Modal Retrieval With Partial Query
Text-based image retrieval has seen considerable progress in recent years. However, the performance of existing methods suffers in real life since the user is likely to provide an incomplete description of an image, which often leads to results filled with false positives that fit the incomplete description. In this work, we introduce the partial-query problem and extensively analyze its influence on text-based image retrieval. Previous interactive methods tackle the problem by passively receiving users' feedback to supplement the incomplete query iteratively, which is time-consuming and requires heavy user effort. Instead, we propose a novel retrieval framework that conducts the interactive process in an Ask-and-Confirm fashion, where AI actively searches for discriminative details missing in the current query, and users only need to confirm AI's proposal. Specifically, we propose an object-based interaction to make the interactive retrieval more user-friendly and present a reinforcement-learning-based policy to search for discriminative objects. Furthermore, since fully-supervised training is often infeasible due to the difficulty of obtaining human-machine dialog data, we present a weakly-supervised training strategy that needs no human-annotated dialogs other than a text-image dataset. Experiments show that our framework significantly improves the performance of text-based image retrieval. Code is available at https://github.com/CuthbertCai/Ask-Confirm.

Zhao Exploiting Explanations for Model Inversion Attacks
The successful deployment of artificial intelligence (AI) in many domains from healthcare to hiring requires their responsible use, particularly in model explanations and privacy. Explainable artificial intelligence (XAI) provides more information to help users to understand model decisions, yet this additional knowledge exposes additional risks for privacy attacks. Hence, providing explanation harms privacy. We study this risk for image-based model inversion attacks and identified several attack architectures with increasing performance to reconstruct private image data from model explanations. We have developed several multi-modal transposed CNN architectures that achieve significantly higher inversion performance than using the target model prediction only. These XAI-aware inversion models were designed to exploit the spatial knowledge in image explanations. To understand which explanations have higher privacy risk, we analyzed how various explanation types and factors influence inversion performance. In spite of some models not providing explanations, we further demonstrate increased inversion performance even for non-explainable target models by exploiting explanations of surrogate models through attention transfer. This method first inverts an explanation from the target prediction, then reconstructs the target image. These threats highlight the urgent and significant privacy risks of explanations and calls attention for new privacy preservation techniques that balance the dual-requirement for AI explainability and privacy.

Ben-Cohen Semantic Diversity Learning for Zero-Shot Multi-Label Classification
Training a neural network model for recognizing multiple labels associated with an image, including identifying unseen labels, is challenging, especially for images that portray numerous semantically diverse labels. As challenging as this task is, it is an essential task to tackle since it represents many real-world cases, such as image retrieval of natural images. We argue that using a single embedding vector to represent an image, as commonly practiced, is not sufficient to rank both relevant seen and unseen labels accurately. This study introduces an end-to-end model training for multi-label zero-shot learning that supports the semantic diversity of the images and labels. We propose to use an embedding matrix having principal embedding vectors trained using a tailored loss function. In addition, during training, we suggest up-weighting in the loss function image samples presenting higher semantic diversity to encourage the diversity of the embedding matrix. Extensive experiments show that our proposed method improves the zero-shot model's quality in tag-based image retrieval achieving SoTA results on several common datasets (NUS-Wide, COCO, Open Images).

Qiu Describing and Localizing Multiple Changes With Transformers
Existing change captioning studies have mainly focused on a single change. However, detecting and describing multiple changed parts in image pairs is essential for enhancing adaptability to complex scenarios. We solve the above issues from three aspects: (i) We propose a simulation-based multi-change captioning dataset; (ii) We benchmark existing state-of-the-art methods of single change captioning on multi-change captioning; (iii) We further propose Multi-Change Captioning transformers (MCCFormers) that identify change regions by densely correlating different regions in image pairs and dynamically determines the related change regions with words in sentences. The proposed method obtained the highest scores on four conventional change captioning evaluation metrics for multi-change captioning. Additionally, our proposed method can separate attention maps for each change and performs well with respect to change localization. Moreover, the proposed framework outperformed the previous state-of-the-art methods on an existing change captioning benchmark, CLEVR-Change, by a large margin (+6.1 on BLEU-4 and +9.7 on CIDEr scores), indicating its general ability in change captioning tasks. The code and dataset are available at the project page.

Luo Score-Based Point Cloud Denoising
Point clouds acquired from scanning devices are often perturbed by noise, which affects downstream tasks such as surface reconstruction and analysis. The distribution of a noisy point cloud can be viewed as the distribution of a set of noise-free samples p(x) convolved with some noise model n, leading to (p * n)(x) whose mode is the underlying clean surface. To denoise a noisy point cloud, we propose to increase the log-likelihood of each point from p * n via gradient ascent---iteratively updating each point's position. Since p * n is unknown at test-time, and we only need the score (i.e., the gradient of the log-probability function) to perform gradient ascent, we propose a neural network architecture to estimate the score of p * n given only noisy point clouds as input. We derive objective functions for training the network and develop a denoising algorithm leveraging on the estimated scores. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed model outperforms state-of-the-art methods under a variety of noise models, and shows the potential to be applied in other tasks such as point cloud upsampling.

Garnot Panoptic Segmentation of Satellite Image Time Series With Convolutional Temporal
Unprecedented access to multi-temporal satellite imagery has opened new perspectives for a variety of Earth observation tasks. Among them, pixel-precise panoptic segmentation of agricultural parcels has major economic and environmental implications. While researchers have explored this problem for single images, we argue that the complex temporal patterns of crop phenology are better addressed with temporal sequences of images. In this paper, we present the first end-to-end, single-stage method for panoptic segmentation of Satellite Image Time Series (SITS). This module can be combined with our novel image sequence encoding network which relies on temporal self-attention to extract rich and adaptive multi-scale spatio-temporal features. We also introduce PASTIS, the first open-access SITS dataset with panoptic annotations. We demonstrate the superiority of our encoder for semantic segmentation against multiple competing network architectures, and set up the first state-of-the-art of panoptic segmentation of SITS. Our implementation and the PASTIS dataset are publicly available at (link-upon-publication).

Wang Pyramid Vision Transformer A Versatile Backbone for Dense Prediction Without
Although convolutional neural networks (CNNs) have achieved great success in computer vision, this work investigates a simpler, convolution-free backbone network useful for many dense prediction tasks. Unlike the recently-proposed Vision Transformer (ViT) that was designed for image classification specifically, we introduce the Pyramid Vision Transformer (PVT), which overcomes the difficulties of porting Transformer to various dense prediction tasks. PVT has several merits compared to current state of the arts. (1) Different from ViT that typically yields low-resolution outputs and incurs high computational and memory costs, PVT not only can be trained on dense partitions of an image to achieve high output resolution, which is important for dense prediction, but also uses a progressive shrinking pyramid to reduce the computations of large feature maps. (2) PVT inherits the advantages of both CNN and Transformer, making it a unified backbone for various vision tasks without convolutions, where it can be used as a direct replacement for CNN backbones. (3) We validate PVT through extensive experiments, showing that it boosts the performance of many downstream tasks, including object detection, instance and semantic segmentation. For example, with a comparable number of parameters, PVT+RetinaNet achieves 40.4 AP on the COCO dataset, surpassing ResNet50+RetinNet (36.3 AP) by 4.1 absolute AP. We hope that PVT could serve as an alternative and useful backbone for pixel-level predictions and facilitate future research.

Qiao Light Source Guided Single-Image Flare Removal From Unpaired Data
Causally-taken images often suffer from flare artifacts, due to the unintended reflections and scattering of light inside the camera. However, as flares may appear in a variety of shapes, positions, and colors, detecting and removing them entirely from an image is very challenging. Existing methods rely on predefined intensity and geometry priors of flares, and may fail to distinguish the difference between light sources and flare artifacts. We observe that the conditions of the light source in the image play an important role in the resulting flares. In this paper, we present a deep framework with light source aware guidance for single-image flare removal (SIFR). In particular, we first detect the light source regions and the flare regions separately, and then remove the flare artifacts based on the light source aware guidance. By learning the underlying relationships between the two types of regions, our approach can remove different kinds of flares from the image. In addition, instead of using paired training data which are difficult to collect, we propose the first unpaired flare removal dataset and new cycle-consistency constraints to obtain more diverse examples and avoid manual annotations. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method outperforms the baselines qualitatively and quantitatively. We also show that our model can be applied to flare effect manipulation (e.g., adding or changing image flares).

Wang RDI-Net Relational Dynamic Inference Networks
Dynamic inference networks, aimed at promoting computational efficiency, go along an adaptive executing path for a given sample. Prevalent methods typically assign a router for each convolutional block and sequentially make block-by-block executing decisions, without considering the relations during the dynamic inference. In this paper, we model the relations for dynamic inference from two aspects: the routers and the samples. We design a novel type of router called the relational router to model the relations among routers for a given sample. In principle, the current relational router aggregates the contextual features of preceding routers by graph convolution and propagates its router features to subsequent ones, making the executing decision for the current block in a long-range manner. Furthermore, we model the relation between samples by introducing a Sample Relation Module (SRM), encouraging correlated samples to go along correlated executing paths. As a whole, we call our method the Relational Dynamic Inference Network (RDI-Net). Extensive experiments on CIFAR-10/100 and ImageNet show that RDI-Net achieves state-of-the-art performance and computational cost reduction. Our code and models will be made publicly available.

Huang ARAPReg An As-Rigid-As Possible Regularization Loss for Learning Deformable Shape
This paper introduces an unsupervised loss for training parametric deformation shape generators. The key idea is to enforce the preservation of local rigidity among the generated shapes. Our approach builds on a local approximation of the as-rigid-as possible (or ARAP) deformation energy. We show how to develop the unsupervised loss via a spectral decomposition of the Hessian of the ARAP loss. Our loss nicely decouples pose and shape variations through a robust norm. The loss admits simple closed-form expressions. It is easy to train and can be plugged into any standard generation models, e.g., VAE and GAN. Experimental results show that our approach outperforms existing shape generation approaches considerably across various datasets such as DFAUST, Animal, and Bone.

Xie Online Refinement of Low-Level Feature Based Activation Map for Weakly
We present a two-stage learning framework for weakly supervised object localization (WSOL). While most previous efforts rely on high-level feature based CAMs (Class Activation Maps), this paper proposes to localize objects using the low-level feature based activation maps. In the first stage, an activation map generator produces activation maps based on the low-level feature maps in the classifier, such that rich contextual object information is included in an online manner. In the second stage, we employ an evaluator to evaluate the activation maps predicted by the activation map generator. Based on this, we further propose a weighted entropy loss, an attentive erasing, and an area loss to drive the activation map generator to substantially reduce the uncertainty of activations between object and background, and explore less discriminative regions. Based on the low-level object information preserved in the first stage, the second stage model gradually generates a well-separated, complete, and compact activation map of object in the image, which can be easily thresholded for accurate localization. Extensive experiments on CUB-200-2011 and ImageNet-1K datasets show that our framework surpasses previous methods by a large margin, which sets a new state-of-the-art for WSOL. Code will be available soon.

Rivoir Long-Term Temporally Consistent Unpaired Video Translation From Simulated Surgical 3D
Research in unpaired video translation has mainly focused on short-term temporal consistency by conditioning on neighboring frames. However for transfer from simulated to photorealistic sequences, available information on the underlying geometry offers potential for achieving global consistency across views. We propose a novel approach which combines unpaired image translation with neural rendering to transfer simulated to photorealistic surgical abdominal scenes. By introducing global learnable textures and a lighting-invariant view-consistency loss, our method produces consistent translations of arbitrary views and thus enables long-term consistent video synthesis. We design and test our model to generate video sequences from minimally-invasive surgical abdominal scenes. Because labeled data is often limited in this domain, photorealistic data where ground truth information from the simulated domain is preserved is especially relevant. By extending existing image-based methods to view-consistent videos, we aim to impact the applicability of simulated training and evaluation environments for surgical applications. Code and data: http://opencas.dkfz.de/video-sim2real.

Zhou TempNet Online Semantic Segmentation on Large-Scale Point Cloud Series
Online semantic segmentation on a time series of point cloud frames is an essential task in autonomous driving. Existing models focus on single-frame segmentation, which cannot achieve satisfactory segmentation accuracy and offer unstably flicker among frames. In this paper, we propose a light-weight semantic segmentation framework for large-scale point cloud series, called TempNet, which can improve both the accuracy and the stability of existing semantic segmentation models by combining a novel frame aggregation scheme. To be computational cost efficient, feature extraction and aggregation are only conducted on a small portion of key frames via a temporal feature aggregation (TFA) network using an attentional pooling mechanism, and such enhanced features are propagated to the intermediate non-key frames. To avoid information loss from non-key frames, a partial feature update (PFU) network is designed to partially update the propagated features with the local features extracted on a non-key frame if a large disparity between the two is quickly assessed. As a result, consistent and information-rich features can be obtained for each frame. We implement TempNet on five state-of-the-art (SOTA) point cloud segmentation models and conduct extensive experiments on the SemanticKITTI dataset. Results demonstrate that TempNet outperforms SOTA competitors by wide margins with little extra computational cost.

